In the last lecture you brainstormed for keyword ideas and put together a list.
Q It's here in your keyword research template.
Now what we want to do in this lecture is look at point nine hundred checklist which is really to narrow
down your keyword list.
We want to get one step closer to the end of the process here which is to really have your chosen keywords
which will be the centerpieces of your content.
So how do you start to cut end this list and identify those keywords.
Well what we can really do is really assess the keywords on two criteria.
One is the search volume so how many searches per month in Google do the keywords get.
That'll help us identify which of these topics are the most popular and also which of these keywords
are the most popular.
Because we want to create content where there's interest the thing where we don't want to happen and
spend a lot of time writing something figuring out that actually only 10 people a month search for that
would be much better off invest in the same amount of time and energy into a keyword that maybe gets
a thousand searches per month search volume then is the first thing that we're going to look at.
And we're also going to assess really the commercial intent the the business value of certain keywords
and when we can do that using cost per click data as a guide I'm rating on explain how we're gonna do
that and a real example.
So we can use two different tools to find that it's information in Google Q or a planner here and the
Google everywhere chrome extension.
Let me get started with the keyword every or google keyword planner.
Essentially the process is going to be the exact same we just take our list of keywords pop it in here
and we're going to get our search volume and cost per click data.
Now the google keyword planner tool is actually a tool that is part of Google AdWords Google AdWords
is the platform and the advertising platform of Google.
So people use this tool advertisers really use this tool to identify the search volume on cost per click
data of keywords.
But for us we can use the same information to help inform our as you know decisions.
Now once you arrive into the google keyword planner tool you'll be faced with that this particular screen
here.
Now one thing to note is when you do sign up to Google AdWords you can do it with a gmail account.
It's absolutely free to do.
You may see that you are being asked to set up a campaign you don't need to do that.
You can actually skip through that process.
It's like a button at the top of the button to do that.
Many want to be really coming into tools and keyword planner.
If you've any trouble with that at all.
Don't worry so much because we can do essentially the same thing in this keyword everywhere extension
tool.
That's an alternative.
One thing that I did want to say is you can use the keyword planner tool actually as a brainstorming
tool as well.
So we're going to get the search volume here in this dropped in but we can use it for brainstorming
as well.
Essentially the exact same way.
You can just type in the keyword and click get ideas here and you'll get a whole list of similar suggestions
that we saw before.
The reason that I didn't want to start your key we're brainstorming here is that you can see a lot of
the terms are very closely related.
And so it's more natural to maybe start in something like Wikipedia where you can really get broad see
the broad connected categories because a lot of people everybody's essentially during their brainstorming
here looking at the same keywords.
So you have an advantage if you start outside of this tool.
With that said let us come down to the search volume here.
All we're gonna do is really copy our list of keywords.
We've already got on pace those in.
We can also take our list of topics as well.
I'm just gonna paste these in because I want to get a sense of of the topics that I have which is the
most popular where should I maybe focus my attention.
I'm just going to edit this slightly because this will show you these search volume for the exact terms.
So nobody's gonna be searching for search engine optimization in brackets SEO.
So just on a split that I was and also the same thing with CRM
so once I've got my list of keywords there now I've got a couple of targeting options here.
The main one is probably the location.
If you're a business that only serves a particular country you can set that up.
For example if I only had a product shipped to the United States and I only want to look for the search
volume there I can just add that in and click save.
You can see that that's now going to only show me the search volume data for this particular country.
Now as I have a more of a global business customers can come from everywhere.
I'm just going to leave that off.
So remove that and then click save.
Now I'm going to get the search volume what I can see here now is a list of the keywords the average
monthly searches and also the suggested bid which is essentially that cost per click data.
What I can do is maybe organize this this top to bottom in terms of the average monthly searches and
to do that I can just click on this column here.
No no surprise for me that I can see out of all of the topics the search engine optimization is essentially
the biggest one.
And after that we move then to some of these social media market e-mail marketing etc. so that can give
you a very high level view of OK where is the interest between my different topics.
Now as we move down the list I guess where we want to focus most of our attention is identifying those
longer tail keywords that we found and seeing the difference between those and I think the range you
want to stick with is maybe between five hundred searches per month and maybe two thousand two thousand
five hundred.
I think they aren't going to be as competitive.
They're going to deliver not enough search volume.
Now I can see that some my list is being hidden here so I might extend this idea to 50 rows and I can
start to see it.
So it's good for me to know something like As check has to sign up 900 searches per month.
I think that's kind of within my range even moving a little bit further than campaign marketing as you
ought to check in is kind of similar 480 searches a month so these are keywords that I'm starting to
like and what I can see as well is that advertisers are paying for these keywords.
So if advertisers are paying five dollars and two cents or euros cents per click then I know this is
a valuable keyword for my business.
I can see a sort this list by what advertisers are paying for it.
And I can see that some of the most valuable terms no surprise something like ICAO agency because people
have their wallets out there ready to buy when they're typing in the term like that into google.
Remember the buyer funnel that we looked at.
These guys are right at the bottom they're ready to spend.
Whereas if I look at the least valuable terms here something like local search webmasters free course
anybody who types in a free course is not going to want to buy a course.
So advertisers are not really spending on that on something like local search.
You can even type any keywords into Google if you're not quite sure what they're talking about.
So local search you can see there is one out there for it's somebody spending money on that.
They're spending let's see 78 cents but you can see a lot of it is quite general and broad and maybe
there are those people are not quite far down the buyer funnel essentially you want to assess then the
keywords based on average monthly searches and suggested bids and you can do essentially the exact same
thing with the keyword everywhere chrome extension.
Take the same list what you can do is really instead of pasting it into the google keyword planner you
just click on the icon here in your browser you can see that there is a place to paste in the keywords
you can take the keywords from your list.
Copy those in and paste those in and you can get the search volume and cost per click.
Now the one caveat with this tool is that it doesn't do the location targeting as well.
You can't change your settings.
I'll show you how to do that but it only really shows search volume for these different countries for
the moment I think you're adding a lot every single time.
But the targeting is much better in the google keyword planner tool you can narrow it down to specific
cities even.
So that's essentially the one caveat that there is between the tools.
So have a look at those two different tools that the keywords that I'm starting to like now are these
ones within the 500 you know the range the couple that I pointed out there.
So what I'm going to do is essentially come to my checklist here.
I can take the information straight from here so I'm actually just going to copy this back in
and essentially I want to add this information in here.
So let me take this copy this pace is in there the search volume.
Copy all of these here for you in one rows.
I can just paste this back in here.
Now you can see I've got these search volume etc. delete this row don't need.
And I can start to look at the keywords that I particularly like.
So looking at some of them I'm just going to highlight some of these here.
I'm actually going to highlight the uh.
There we go.
Easier to see.
Best practices.
That's kind of an interesting one checklist 2016.
Interesting for Web sites.
So there might be some discrepancy between these tools in terms of search volumes.
I think a size 13 and the keyword planner these tools aren't 100 percent accurate.
None of them are you can really use them as a guideline as the audit checklist is another one I like.
So now I'm starting to narrow down my list based on these search volume and I suggest you do the same
units really highlighted here in your keyword research template.
Next up we're going to move to the final step in our keyword research process.
Choosing our entire target keywords so I'll see their.